[Music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio
news.
[Music]
Hello OddLots listeners. You are
listening to another special episode of
the podcast. It was recorded in New York
City on July 26th. In this uh
conversation, we talked to Emily Sunberg
of the FeedMe newsletter. We are talking
about how Gen Z sees the world, how they
think about capitalism, how they think
about money, how they think about
investing, how they think about spending
it, and how they think about how nobody
is coming to save them. That's right. I
don't think it's a secret at this point
that Gen Z seems to love uh stock market
investing and things like that, trying
to make money. So, take a listen. First
question been on my mind the last couple
of days. you have a very like young
plugged in like sort of business
capitalism audience. What percentage of
your readers do you think voted for uh
Zoron? Um a young man, I think he was
19, a Yale student emailed me this
morning and asked if I could put that
poll in my newsletter and I I didn't. It
felt a little late, but I should have.
I'm guessing 65%
cautiously like Yeah. Hm. Can you maybe
describe your sort of average reader
just for people who might not be aware
like what population are you plugged
into here? So, I don't know if any of
you use Substack, but they don't give
you these analytics. So, all of my data
about my readership has been quite
anecdotal from just looking at people's
profiles in the comment section and
seeing who shows up to my parties. But,
do any of you read it? Like if I do.
Okay. So, some of that's some my
audience. I like to say that my
readership is everyone from bartenders
to billionaires, but I would say like if
you're paying $80 a year for a
newsletter, then you're probably making
a decent amount of money or you're at
least interested in making money. And I
think it's a mostly New York audience,
30 to 45ish.
But if you come to my parties, you'll
see who else there is. But I I would say
like people interested in in making
money and somewhat interested in New
York City business and culture. So the
first time several tries to get you on
the podcast, but finally making it
happen. And I wanted to talk about like
Gen Z and capitalism because I feel like
millennials and maybe Gen X, but
millennials in particular like sort of
had this lovehate relation, like sort of
apologized for wanting money, sort of
ambivalent about it. And I get the
impression that the younger generation
is like much more comfortable with like,
yeah, we want to make a ton of money.
And so I'm like curious. Yeah. So talk
about if that's correct, this
perception. I think one thing that's
very clear about Gen Z is that they've
repeatedly been told nobody is coming to
save you. You're going to graduate into
a job market that barely exists. And if
you get a job, you might not even have a
desk or an office to go into. A lot of
them were home during COVID and they're
also seeing like shootings in schools
all the time and they're seeing their
capital getting sworn like they're it's
nobody's coming to save them and it's
sort of up to them to make the most of
this world while it's still in
existence. And you hear this sense of
like get the bag while the world is
still here for you to make some money
out of it. What was your question?
No, that was basically it. Like that's
like an overwhelming sentiment that I
hear from from these people. Yeah. I
think it was like some survey and they
they asked all the generations like what
do you need to have a good life? And it
was something like $70,000 whatever and
then Jenzie was like $500,000 salary or
something like that. Yeah. I I mean
you're even seeing like if you're a
creator even at like Goldman Sachs,
you're probably making more money as
like making day in the life Tik Toks
than you are from your salary. And like
there's this growing creator economy and
your role model might be somebody who's
like made millions and millions of
dollars a year from humiliating
themselves online. And like there's all
these possibilities and tools from
entering the creator economy. Like I
think Bloomberg published a story last
week that even just the market for
creator marketing is like $33 billion
now. It's massive. This idea that no
one's coming to save you. We've talked
about this on an episode before, but it
does feel like that kind of translates
into people making these lottery ticket
type bets, right? So, I'll buy into
crypto or I'll make a ridiculous options
trade or something like that and hope
that I just get lucky and save myself.
Mhm. Yeah. I I think like something with
crypto, there's this online sort of
sportsmanship and camaraderie around it
as well. So there's like this fun
competition and making the money and
it's all very public as well to me. Like
you're seeing how much your peers are
making and winning and you're almost
like seeing how much they're taking home
each week which is stressful. How much
of the um nobody is coming to save you
mentality is like AI dread. Like jobs as
we know them might not exist. I think a
lot of it. Yeah. Say more. I mean, back
to this idea that say you graduate from
college last week on a 100 degree day
and you don't have a job lined up yet,
or maybe you do have a job lined up and
you're entering a very flat company
where there's not like a clear ladder
for you to climb. And not only is your
timeline there, it probably feels
somewhat flat, but the end is like
whether you're a copywriter or if you're
working in finance, there's like the end
of it might be a replacement with mass
layoffs and AI coming in to take that
job. I'm going to ask a completely
self-interested question, but does Gen Z
truly hate the millennial generation? Is
that a real thing? I'm not Gen Z. So
like I'm not like the speaker of the
generation. I'm I guess maybe how I'm 30
so
but I never identified as Jenz I'm
definitely identify more with
millennials. I don't think they truly
hate millennials. I don't think that's
the case. I think that there's like a
lot of parts about there's like this
tweess to millennials that is like
cringey, but that's fair. I agree. Yeah.
I'm really actually um I've actually
been thinking about this phenomenon of
like really flat companies for a while.
So I thought it was like really
interesting that you said that because
it really feels like and we actually did
an episode recently with the economist
Ricardo Houseman where he sort of talked
about like companies their structure is
just they have a lot of different people
who are like the talent but it doesn't
feel like they're just sort of normal
jobs at a lot of companies for people
who are just sort of normal to get.
Yeah. I worked at Meta for a few years
and there there were like these Roman
numerals next to your position and you
knew how much everybody at the company
was making if they were like a three or
a five and when you moved from a four to
a five it was like $20,000 more like not
life-changing like maybe you're taking
an extra few Ubers like a year or
something like that and it felt very
flat like and it's also hard to look at
somebody who you're working with who's
two levels higher than you and
necessarily aspire to that like you're
not going to stay an extra 2 hours at
night. It It's not inspiring. So, just
going back to Mum Donnie. So, one of the
theories about why he's kind of
resonating with the younger crowd
nowadays is this idea that, okay, they
don't really have a stake in capitalism
necessarily, like they don't feel like
they're being rewarded by the capitalist
system and so they're voting for change.
Is that something you kind of observe in
your day-to-day interactions? Well, I
work alone, so I'm not like observing
many interactions from people, but like
online, I think like the people who
gravitated towards him the strongest
felt more relig like hope like it it was
like this idea of hope and something
different and it was like a salve after
such a rough beginning of the year with
like Trump coming into the White House.
But yeah, I I don't I think it was it
felt more emotional and almost religious
to me than like at least from like what
I've been observing and and and why
people attach themselves to that message
so strongly. What about um we were
talking about okay you have this desire
to get the bag, make a bunch of money
and like a lottery ticket metaphorically
with crypto or whatever. How does this
uh mentality how would you say it
changes consumption patterns and like
the impulse to just like save or like
how does it affect what people buy?
That's a good question. I was talking to
a friend the other day who said that she
was at her younger sister's graduation
on the West Coast and all of the young
women were wearing Gucci sandals like
all of them at this school. It was in
the Bay Area and she's 10 years older
than her sister and she was like, "This
is not something that I witnessed." And
it's not like everyone there is loaded
to afford this this like specific
sandal. And I know that a lot of you
might have read that story in New York
magazine a few weeks ago about the West
Village and this sort of homogeneous
looking young person in New York City.
And I'm realizing that that's kind of a
phenomenon across the whole country.
It's like everyone is wearing the same,
buying the same, like fitting into this
and millennials back to that. It's like
everybody wanted to do their own thing
and listen to their own music and and
have their own style and have their own
Tumblr, whatever. Like it was annoying.
It was annoying, but it it it created
like diversity of opinions and the
ability to have like small shows that
sold out and stuff and small brands that
existed and small stores that existed,
but and I haven't fully baked out the
thought, but I started realizing it like
a week ago, like the West Village thing
has quickly turned into like if you live
in the in a flyover state or you live in
the West Village, you might be wearing
the same exact outfit and be just as
obsessed with like the matcha thing,
whatever.
So that's like definitely part of the
consumption conversation. It's like
you're checking off boxes of of like
small things that you're buying, whether
it's at Starbucks or Gucci to like kind
of form this perfect life of what it
means to be a 25-year-old. And like,
okay, now I'm happy I figured that out.
Something else that I've been reading a
lot about, I have some young readers and
I do a lot of surveys in my newsletter,
which is awesome that my readers are
even willing to spend like 15 minutes on
that cuz I wouldn't.
There's a real sentiment of like the
world is burning, so why shouldn't we
enjoy the things that we can? And I I
don't know what the savings accounts of
these people look like or the or the
credit card bills look like, but I know
that a lot of these people are spending
money that they do not have because I
understand that the jobs that usually
facilitate that are a lot they're paying
a lot more than what these young people
are making. And I imagine there's a
sense that I'm never going to make
enough to buy a house or something like
that. And then there's like the whole
buy now pay later conversation which you
can buy now pay later. You're seamless.
Like that's crazy. Yeah. So, I I think
it's like you make the money, you spend
the money, and and they're probably not
even thinking about What about my kids?
Because that's the dating apps don't
even work. So, I don't know where the
kids come in. Now, this is bleak. Yeah,
this ble actually. No, but this it's I'm
I'm enjoying this. So,
I lived for many years of my life in
Illinois. My dad was a uh physics
professor at a very small college. And
it it always strikes me like that he was
totally fine moving to a fairly small
large town in Illinois. When you said
fly over states, is there this
aspiration that like you have to get to
one of the big cities that like you have
to get to like New York or LA or San
Francisco? I think as much as I don't
think that's like a new thing. I think
it's like
we'll we'll get to the West Village like
I I don't think that everybody there's
like a new grind to do that. I think
that there's just as many young people
in New York living with four roommates
in a one-bedroom with like weird Home
Depot walls everywhere as there were
when I was young where they're working.
I mean, the three of us are all like in
the creator economy. I'm sure that
there's a whole micro
group of young people doing the same
trying to do the same thing. We are in
the creator economy.
just on the Hey, there's a mic in front
of you. This is What else are we doing?
We're creating. Yeah, I did. Did I
disagree? No. Okay, we're creators.
Um, just on the West Village girl thing
and the idea of homogeneity among
fashion and consumerism. What do you
think is driving that? Is that like a
lack of community or I I don't know.
Like that was one of the most shocking
parts of the story to me. Like I feel so
silly. If there was one person in this
room with the same exact outfit as me,
I'd be like, "Wait a second." Right?
What h how what happened? Like I thought
I was putting something together. Two
white pieces of clothing. But it is it's
really weird. Like I don't know if
you've ever been in one of those workout
classes, but it's like they all have
this set. It's I'm not sure what it is.
I have to do some research because it's
an extreme comfort with having the an
identical
And I think part of it is probably like
the Amazon storefront and they're all
following the same influencer who's
promoting the same product and everybody
buys it immediately. There was this
piece of clothing. I guess it was a
dress um from from Tori Burch a few
weeks ago and I posted it because I saw
like five people at the at different
weddings on the same weekend wearing it
and it's a very distinct like hot pink
dress with mirrors all over it and I
said this is going to be the wedding
guest dress of the summer. Like this is
going to be everywhere and it sold out
the next day. Like people were not like
then I'm not going to buy it. Everyone
bought it. Like everybody clicked the
link and then bought it. Like there's
this I think when you're all following
the same people and the same brands and
having the same excitement about the
time people follow what time like
clothing drops come out at these brands
too like what time the sites get
updated. There's a lot more likelihood
than that you're all going to buy the
same thing. Yeah. That's really weird.
Like you'd think okay people want to be
distinct but I remember my wife and I
went out to a comedy show a couple
months ago and everybody was dressed the
same and both of us were like sort of
flabbergasted. Like what was the same?
It was just like sort of black, like a
sort of black shirt. I mean, you know,
it's New York, so people have always
worn all black, but it was really weird.
There was no color in anyone's clothes
in the entire audience that night, and
it was um very strange. How much do
those Gucci sandals cost?
800? I don't know. I don't But um 8 like
a lot of money for for a pair of shoes.
And then for everyone to feel comfort. I
mean, we see it all the time with bags
and stuff, but it is sort of funny when
it's an entire wardrobe. But I think Can
you talk about the Birkin? What What
part do you want to talk about? Just
talk about it. Do people still buy
Birkkins like as an investment? I don't
know. Bethany Frankle said she she's
made like a ton of money on flipping her
Birkens, but God flipped. Yeah, she's a
flipper. She did she's bought some new
houses, too. One of the re things that I
always like reading in your newsletter
is like you're always talking about new
brands that are launching new
restaurants etc. There's been we talk
about volatility in the market all this
uncertainty due to trade and whatever
else. Do you feel any slowdown at all in
sort of new entrepreneurial endeavors on
account of all this uncertainty that's
going on or is it just like people just
powering through it? A slowdown of new
economic endeavors of like from young
people. Yeah. or just like new like new
business launches. Has that slowed down
at all in your view with all the
economic question marks? No, I think
people are doing it differently though.
I don't think people are as excited to
take on like venture capital and they're
more likely to like bootstrap or attach
themselves to a friend and like try
something and have it fail and sort of
quietly brush it aside and be like, I
didn't start that weird vodka company
that it's like I don't do that anymore.
you know, where I think like I can speak
to the girl boss very well. Like the
girl boss of of my of when I was like
coming up in my 20s was like taking
these huge checks from whatever
forrunner or a general catalyst or
whatever. I never really thought about
the implications and then I think young
people have sort of learned what that
means at the end which means people are
going to want some return and often they
don't get it. So, I know you were
talking in your newsletter, I think it
was just this week, about another
article in New York Mag, which was about
the Hamptons and the sort of like
existential stress, I guess, that rich
people in the Hamptons feel about their
lifestyle and they feel competitive with
one another. And I think you said that
people were kind of like batting that
away and saying that's not so much of a
thing. But then on the other hand, you
also wrote about weddings and how much
everyone is spending on weddings
nowadays, how expensive it is to be a
guest. I guess my question is like what
pockets of the culture, whether it's New
York or beyond, are are the most
consumerist or wealth obsessed for you
right now? Women. Um
the thing is it's all happening all the
the cameras are always on. So like let's
take weddings for example. Hamptons are
a different story. It's like a different
econom. There's so many different facets
going on there. With the weddings, it's
like it used to be about the bride and
now it's about every individual at the
wedding and the photo that they're
getting and where the photo is going to
end up after. I'm speaking from like the
point of view of a of a New York woman
who's like I don't know if this is the
case for everyone, but something else
that I identified this morning with my
husband that I think is that I think
that the definition of friend who
qualifies for wedding is sort of like
expanding as well. So, there's this
weird gift culture going on where if I
invite you, then I have to invite you
and I'm expecting that you're going to
invite me to yours. And I also think
that there's something happening with
like DMs and group texts where people
are getting closer faster and like that
also affects the wedding guests lists.
Yeah, this resonates. Someone in one I
think someone in a a group chat recently
now they're getting married and I was
like what the heck? Why didn't I get an
invite? We're in a group chat together.
So I could see like that stress totally.
I was talking to somebody before my
wedding which was two months ago about
my wedding and they were like, "So am I
invited?" And I was like, "No, I'm just
telling you something about my life
right now." But there's also an
etiquette epidemic. Wait, what does that
mean? What does that mean? An etiquette
epidemic? Like people not holding the
door for you. People posting photos of
your wedding before you do, like things
like that. I think we're out of time.
That was so good. That was really I love
your newsletter. I love finally getting
a chance to chat. And I think we at some
point we should do another longer
episode just on like the group chat
economy. There were so many facets.
Thank you so much, Emily. Thank you.
[Music]
This has been another episode of the All
Thoughts Podcast. I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway. And I'm
Jill Weisenthal. You can follow me at
the stalwart. Follow our producers
Carmen Rodriguez at Carmen Armanett
atbot and Kalebrooks at Kellbrooks. For
more OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlotss
where we have a daily newsletter and all
of our episodes. And you can chat about
these topics 247 in our Discord,
discord.gg/odlotss.
And if you enjoy OddLots, if you like it
when we do these live recordings, then
please leave us a positive review on
your favorite podcast platform. Thanks
for listening.
Yeah.
[Music]